Now that you know some of the required steps for us to set up a serverless API,
let's get started on our project for this module.
As a quick reminder of what we're building,
we'll create a static frontend that has a recaptcha
validation test and form fields,
and is configured to send post requests to our serverless API.
That API will send the input it receives to a lambda handler function.
The handler will send a request to the Google
recaptcha API and process the input.
If it fails, it will return that failure to the lambda function,
which will send that back to the requester via the API.
On success, it will send a request to the Twilio API,
which will send a text using the information included in the form fields.
Before we start this demo,
please be aware that the API keys and secrets that you use in this
course should be kept out of source control.
Especially your AWS access and Twilio keys,
as they could be used to send messages on your behalf,
or take actions in the AWS console.
So when iterating on these applications,
be sure not to accidentally commit these credentials.
In this demo, we'll be deploying a full-stack serverless application.
We'll start by gathering our dependencies,
including working with Google Recaptcha to make sure
we'll be able to use that in our site,
setting up a Twilio account in order to get credentials to send text messages,
and then scaffolding out our service with the code provided for this module.
Then, we'll review all the function code that we'll be using,
the API endpoints that we'll be deploying,
then we'll take a moment and deploy our project as a whole,
including the static site and the front-end,
and our serverless APIs in the back-end.
So let's dive into our demo.
First, let's get our Google Recaptcha credentials.
The application uses reCAPTCHA V2 with the I'm not a
robot checkbox and verification.
You can sign up for reCAPTCHA V2 with a Google account at this URL.
During the sign up process for reCAPTCHA V2,
make sure to include amazonaws on the list of domains.
This will allow your reCAPTCHA to load on the AWS static website,
which we'll be deploying.
Then accept the terms of service and press the Register button.
Copy down the recaptcha data site key and secret
values somewhere you can reference.
We'll be adding those to a configuration file in the moment.
Next, let's create our Twilio account at this URL.
The first time you create an account,
you'll need to verify the phone number you'll be using with the account.
But in exchange,
you'll be getting a few dollars worth of trial
credits to use with this application.
You can give your project whatever name you'd prefer.
When you're done signing up,
click the Show API Credentials link in the top right.
Then copy down the account SID and auth token values.
You'll need to press the eye icon to show your auth token.
Once you're done with this,
you can get your first Twilio phone number by going to this URL and
clicking the Get your first Twilio phone number button.
Choose the phone number that they offer you,
and then copy down that phone number, as we'll be using that later.
Next, we'll be reviewing some of the code we're using in this demo.
I'm using the tree utility to show you each of the files within this folder,
but this isn't required for this course.
The first one we'll be opening up will be serverless.
yml.
Go ahead and do that now.
In serverless.
yml,
replace the default values in the environment section with your
newly acquired Twilio and recaptcha values.
Also be sure to replace the final configuration value of
your unique bucket name here with a unique S3 bucket name
to deploy your application in.
This value has to be different from all other S3 buckets,
because S3 buckets are globally unique across every bucket in existence.
So I'd suggest something like fernando-node-text-message-app-20170801
to make sure you don't run into any name conflicts.
Consider adding the name of your favorite animal to the end just to be safe.
Make sure that you're copying the Google secret and not the site key.
And also keep in mind to put in your Twilio phone number in this file,
not your personal cell phone.
When you're done, make sure to save the file.
Next, let's take a look at the abridged version of how the handler.
js file validates things coming in through the API Gateway.
First, we load in our environment variables and required libraries.
Then we add the headers constant of Access-Control-Allow-Origin *.
This allows us to make sure that we don't run into issues
with cross origin resource sharing.
After that, we create a Google recaptcha payload from the event data,
and then we send that payload over to Google and check
whether or not this recaptcha has passed.
If the Google recaptcha is valid, then we create a payload for the Twilio API,
and we attempt to send our SMS message.
If the message is successfully sent, then we send the results back to the caller.
After we're done reviewing the handler.
js file, let's go back to our terminal.
Run npm install from the top level folder of this project in
order to install the dependencies we need.
This will install the Twilio helper, the requests package,
serverless finch, and any dependencies that they need.
Now with all our dependencies installed and our code set up,
let's deploy our serverless API using serverless deploy.
After the deployment is complete,
be sure to copy the API Gateway value that is returned to the console.
It should look something like this.
Let's open up the lambda section of the AWS console one more time.
You should see a new function listed.
If we click into that function,
you can scroll down and see that it's been configured with environment
variables that were included with our serverless.
yml file.
Now let's go to the API Gateway section of the console.
If you do this,
you can see that the API Gateway has successfully deployed
and configured an API endpoint for us.
But with all of this deployed,
how are we going to actually use this in an application?
Because we created our recaptcha to be used within the domain Amazon AWS,
we'll actually be taking advantage of AWS static site hosting.
To speed up this process, we'll use two things,
a prebuilt static website template that's included in the demos
code that you've downloaded for this module,
and the serverless finch plugin for the serverless framework,
which we'll be using to deploy our static site.
First, we need to prep our static site for deployment.
Use a text editor to open up the index file at client/dist/index.
html.
We'll be making two changes.
First,
replace your Google recaptcha site key text with the data site key
value from the Google recaptcha step earlier.
This will have the static site load in your specific
Google recaptcha for validation.
This value is different from the secret value,
which we just copied down and put into serverless.
yml.
Next,
change the API endpoint URL to the value that you copy
down from our deployment process.
This will make your static site post to the API endpoint you just deployed.
After making these changes and saving the index.
html file, let's use serverless finch to deploy our static site.
You can do this with the serverless client deploy command.
This will deploy the contents of our client/dist folder as
a static site in an S3 bucket on AWS.
When this process is completed,
it should output the location of our deployed project.
Copy that down, and paste it into your browser to take a look.
You should see a page that looks something like this.
Go ahead and enter in your personal phone number and
a message to send to yourself.
You'll need to use your personal phone number,
because other numbers aren't validated and your
account is still in a trial phase.
Once you're done entering a message,
then complete the Google recaptcha portion and send the message.
You should see a success status and get the message on your cell phone.
If you'd like, you can go back to the AWS console and take a look at S3.
Within S3,
you should see a new bucket that we're using for our static site hosting.
This bucket contains all the static site files from client/dist
and was created by the serverless finch plugin.
And that's it.
We've just deployed our first full stack serverless
application using the serverless framework.
In this module, we covered several serverless concepts.
We took a look at plugins and how we can use them to extend and
enhance the functionality of the serverless framework.
We also took a look at the process for API development and configuration,
as well as some deployment options that we have for when we
want to get our services up and running.
We also learned some new serverless skills; specifically,
we implemented our own serverless APIs.
We also deployed a full stack serverless application,
complete with the front-end application that we
deployed with the serverless finch plugin,
through to the back-end serverless API that allowed us to
integrate with other third-party services.
Coming up in the next module,
we'll be working with serverless CRUD applications and how we can use APIs
and databases in combination with the serverless framework. I'll see you in the next module.